The one who will survive is the
one who has clear vision
for what he wants and how he wants it.
At the beginning, I gave an example of saint
who had that. That saint is Josemaría Escrivá.
We have to be familiar
with our vocation
and we have to experience that God called
us to it in our hearts. Then, we will not give up.
When he was very young priest, during
an apparition, God told him that he wants
him to establish
a congregation of lay people, who
will live holy through daily duties.
Fathers, mothers, craftsmen, merchants,
doctors, politicians who live holy in daily life.
Ten years from establishment,
there was no success.
He even had to pretend to be
insane to save his life.
He pretended to be insane like David.
It is described in The Books of Samuel.
Just to save his life, he was hearing confessions
in parks, without wearing a collar or a stole.
He was running away from the police
because, during the Spanish Civil War
in Madrid, a Marxist leftist group
was operating to persecute priests.
He fled across the Pyrenees
with the group of ten people
and they came to Rome.
He was trying to establish a congregation there.
All this time he was pushed forward
by that vision that God gave him.
The problem of fathers and families of
today is that they don’t have the clear
vision of where they are heading to.
They don’t know where do they have
to go, they don’t have a clear, specific goal.
And they can’t have it
until they discover the One
who put them in a specific
situation or a place for a reason.
Escrivá discovered that
vision has to be very specific.
It can’t be dispersed.
I watched a movie that was made
after an event when ten nuclear warheads
from the former Soviet Union disappeared.
And a CIA agent said one sentence
that I remembered very well:
„I'm not afraid of this man“
(because they traced the money)
„who bought ten nuclear warheads. I am
terribly scared of the one who bought only one
because that man knows where to use it.”
The people who know where they are going and
what they are doing are dangerous to the devil.
Such was Escrivá.
We have to have clear vision even when
external circumstances indicate that it
is not possible.
To have a clear vision.
Solomon says in Proverbs 29:18:
„Where there is no vision, the people perish.”
When there is no vision, the family parish.
Where are we taking them, specifically?
We must learn to distinguish between
good deeds and God's works.
There is a lot of good that we do,
but we don't have to do everything.
What does God inspire us to do?
How can a man be the leader of his
family if he is not first led by Christ?
He can’t! These are his futile attempts
that children will recognize as
such and go into disobedience.
But if it is inspired by God, God
gives that authority to be obeyed.
The prophet Isaiah wrote in one text that all
our good works are before God as dirty rags.
And the Greek translation
for dirty cloths says veste
menstrualis – used pads.
Such are our good deeds.
And we  must make a good distinction
about what God is calling us to do.
I, as a community leader, also
have to keep an eye on this
because there are thousands of offers coming.
Get involved in this initiative, that
initiative, the caritas, the unborn,
the worship groups...
These are all good things and holy things,
but if they don’t fit into our vision we received
from the Lord at the beginning of the year,
then we reject those offers.
And so we need to know how to prioritize.
An emotionally healthy person will keep in balance
his personal relationships, which he
should have with his loved ones,
a relationship with God, work and
ministry, and time for rest,
as much as possible. It's not even
possible to keep it in perfect balance,
but he will keep an eye on it.
And whoever believes this, God will
put him in charge of many more things.
Jesus says: „Whoever is faithful with very little
will also be faithful with much.”
And for those who work for employers,
Jesus says: „Whoever is
faithful to someone else’s,
he well be given his own.“
And really, so many experiences from the people
who were in awe of the work they have,
even though it was owned by someone else.
And God really trusted them to get into
blessing. These are the spiritual laws
Jesus places on all of us.
Good deeds - works of God.
A clear vision.
A clear vision is the key to success.
A man who knows where he is going
will instill confidence in those he leads.
A good friend of mine was
one of the officers in the Operation Storm,
and he told me about the experience
when Operation Storm was being prepared.
Nobody knew exactly when it would
happen to keep the information secret.
And he said that there was one place
near Udbina, which still exists today,
but it was unfortunately abandoned.
Široka kula,
where Chetniks entered and killed the
whole place - 44 people. And the place
ceased to exist, it was just their
strategic point for military action.
He had a hundred men under him
and sent three of them into
the reconnaissance patrol.
They inspected the terrain and there
was nothing there, but on the way back,
one of them stepped on a landmine.
Two of them came back in panic and said:
“There he is, alive, lying, bleeding, what should we do?”
And the officer was thinking about what
he should do, he entered into this agony.
The man was still alive, he knew he was still alive,
and again he would have risked if they went there.
And he said: “I will go there and you two will
go with me. You will show me where he is.”
They came and the man was still alive.
He was a little heavier, he had over
100 kilos. They put him on a stretcher
and carried him. He said,
while they were carrying him,
he remembered almost
every stone on the way
because someone could shoot
them every second of this action,
they did not know where their opponents were.
And they brought him in and
the man survived, thank God.
But why am I telling you this?
As soon as the Operation Storm
was determined to start,
the general of Operation did not know exactly
where to go and how to go there.
And because of this experience,
the officer from the earlier story
decided to set out on his own.
And he said,
after about ten minutes of walking,
he suddenly turned behind
and saw that everyone was following him.
Even the general.
They recognized from his attitude that
he is a man who knew where he was going.
And in that difficult moment,
when their lives where in danger, when
they didn't know whether they will survive
or not, they went after the one
who knew where he was going.
And he really brought them
right to that school, he was
the first who went inside.
He made sure it was safe and everyone
ran inside like they were little children,
fell on the floor after a whole day of walking
and fell asleep. He didn't even have a
place to sleep. He slept outside.
But he told me,
these are the people and that means to be
a leader. The leader knows where he is going
and the others follow him without him saying
anything.They did not follow the general
who was ranked higher than the one
who knew where he was going.
How will God reveal the vision for us to us?
There are two ways.
The first way is
to enter a prayer and
ask God to reveal it to us. And it’s good
to prepare for that kind of prayer.
„God, what do You want for me from this
position right here? What more can I do?“
And God will speak, maybe
on supernatural way
like he spoke to Saint Francis:
“Francis, go fix my Church!”
and to Saint Josemaría Escrivá:
“Establish a congregation!”
But, there is the second way
which is more common.
If we become a man of prayer,
if we discover God’s heart,
God may
simply allow us to recognize
some need in our hearts.
There is the calling of sister Elvira
who established Community of Cenacolo.
She rode a tram
from the monastery to the school where she worked
and she saw numerous drug addicts everyday
and that no one is taking care of them.
An angel from heaven didn’t come down to
Earth to tell her to establish the community.
She saw people in need.
Jesus is in these people.
Jesus said: “Truly, I say to you, as you did it to
one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me”.
Blessed Mother Theresa went to meet
up with Pope John Paul II on one occasion.
On her way here,
she saw a leper dying on
the road, stopped the car
and took care of him. When she got
there, the pope was already gone.
And they told her:
“The pope was waiting for you.“ and she said:
„I know the pope was waiting, but I met Jesus on
the way.“
Sister Elvira recognized
the need
and established the community which
saved so many people from drug addiction.
Jesus says: “They have eyes, but do not see”.
The devil has poisoned us so
much through the media
and through his lies and bad news
- that it is impossible to succeed,
that so many things are impossible
- that we really believed in it.
We have to open our eyes
and start watching.
Opportunities are all around us.
When my cousins came to Australia,
banished by the Communists,
they were at rock bottom, really poor.
They were walking in the desert, lived off welfare.
God gave them healthy eyes to see
squids swimming in nearby waters.
They noticed that Australians don’t hunt squid.
Australians weren’t used to eating squid.
They started to hunt squid
and cook squid specialties.
Today they have a fishing fleet of five vessels.
National Geographic filmed article about them.
To open our eyes. To see.
We need to become visionaries.
It is the father who must, in his children,
and later in the space that God opens,
be the one who gives life, who spreads the vision.
God said in Jeremiah:
“For I know the plans I have for you,
plans to prosper you and not to harm you,
plans to give you hope and a future”.
The real leader is the one who gives
hope and a future. He receives
that future and sees it in prayer.
Jesus said that the Holy Spirit, when He comes,
will lead us into truth and announce our future to us.
He sees it in prayer
and since he sees something he does not
have yet, he raises hope in those he leads
that it is possible.
This means to be a leader and every man
is called to be a leader, first in his family.
And trust me, if you do it right, you will not stay
only the leader of your own family for long
because God says: „He who is faithful in
the small will be trusted in the great.“
Seeing something that is not there yet
and firmly believing that God can
accomplish it.
An example that shocked me, when I
mentioned Escriva, was how his co-worker
described what it was like
to live in Madrid
without having bread for the next day,
in an apartment with bomb-blasted glass windows.
She woke up one morning and saw Escriva
leaning over the paper and drawing something.
And listen to the testimony of
Encarnita Ortega, one of his closest associates:
“Father Josemaria Escriva laid out a
map on the table, outlining the various
projects that the female part of Opus Dei
had to bring to life in various parts of the world.
At the very attempt to follow Father
Josemarie's presentation I felt dizzy
as he explained all these projects to
us in an unusual and colorful way.”
Imagine that,
he had no dime, no bread, no rakia
and he said: “Construction of
agricultural schools for peasants,
schools for various types of
vocational training, student
dormitories, maternity wards in cities
around the world, the introduction of
mobile libraries that will bring valuable and
educational meaning useful reading in the
outermost villages, opening bookstores.”
Folding the map slowly, he said,
“There are two ways to react to anything.
One is to think that all this is a
wonderful but impossible dream.
The second is
to trust the Lord
and believe that,
when He already asks us to do so,
He will help us in trying to
make this dream come true.
I hope you will react the second way.“
“However, the reality at the time was
hunger, fatigue, weakness and poverty.
We lived in Madrid overwhelmed by
the aftermath of the Spanish Civil War.
The conditions of life in Spain in 1942 were
by no means conducive to the realization
of such ambitious dreams.
Escriva, however, was filled
with supernatural hope
that continually propelled him forward.”
Listen to this: “In the years that followed,
all the projects he envisioned
in 1942 were accomplished.”
It is living a supernatural life in everyday life.
To let God build us, let Him
give us that vision we need.
Building our character
and prayer life
will lead us to become capable, just as
Abraham became capable, to carry out God’s
plan that will become a blessing to
many - from our family onwards.
The greatest evangelist in the history of
Christianity, a Baptist preacher Billy Graham,
who died in February this year,
began his ministry
by meeting with four of his closest associates,
and they decided to spend some time praying
in one town in California and to observe
the lives of other evangelists
They studied their mistakes so
they wouldn’t repeat them.
And they came up with four
vows they have made to God.
The first vow was about finances.
Most mistakes were made with finances.
They established
a supervisory body,
independent of them, to
manage their finances.
When they tried to accuse
them of certain frauds, there
was a report, a specific one,
with the entire flow of money.
He died at the age of 100, without any
financial scandal. God rewarded their
faithfulness and they became the most
financially successful church organization.
Second,
they said they would guard their marriages
by never meeting one on one with woman
who they provide spiritual guidance,
because even David, the man
of God, had failed that test
And there were always two of them or,
if their wives were traveling with them,
then they assisted in prayer so they could
make sure not to repeat the mistakes
of some of their predecessors.
And God rewarded him
by giving him a wife
who is an example of a woman standing
by her husband and five children who
are in the ministry today and
are disciples of Christ, and
so are his grandchildren.
The third thing was that
they would never gossip
and criticize other people doing the same
work as them, evangelizing, but in a different way.
And fourth, they promised that they would
never speak of success, how many people
they had, how much healing happened, but
that as soon as the service finishes, they
would obey Jesus' counsel, kneel down and
say: „We are worthless servants“ and commit
to the next project. And they let foreign
media and others publish what happened
and how it happened.
God gave him
to bring 218 million people to Jesus Christ.
He had a crusade at the Seoul airport for
1,300,000 people who gave their lives to Christ.
Today, Korea is one of the fastest
growing Christian countries.
This was a man who had a clear vision.
He first let God build his character
and that is why he conducted
such successful ministry
and died at the age of 100
without a single scandal.
And second, he didn’t impede God.
He chose to believe in God to whom all
things were possible. The God who
separated the Red Sea,
who raised Jesus Christ,
who healed eyes to the blind from birth.
And what touched me the most,
some of you saw the video,
in the time of the fiercest communism,
in the 1950s,
he came to Moscow
when everyone fled from Moscow.
And at the stadium,
like Elijah in the moment he put his
head between his legs, in anguish,
he began to pray for that region that has
been completely destroyed by communism.
Before the crusade, he said that he
had a vision and faith that he would come
and preach about Jesus Christ
at that stadium in Moscow.
And God rewarded his faith.
What is incredible is that, in 1989, while
the Soviet Union was still in power,
he had been doing a seminar
there. US President gave him a permission
to go and he couldn’t believe what was going on.
The Red Army Orchestra
played Glory Glory Hallelujah.
I’ll show you in the video. Jakov will play the
video so you can see what was it like.
He first appears in the video as a young
man in his 50s. How did God reward his faith?
…In His word.
That is why we are often unhappy as
the two disciples who came from Emmaus.
Jesus met them after his death
and they sadly recounted to
him what had happened.
And he quoted the Word of God to them.
He told them where it had been written
that it must have happened
and that gave them hope. They said:
“Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked?”
We are often sad, unhappy, unpromising
because we believe in our version of Jesus.
When we established the community,
thank God for that, there
were only a few of us.
We held our meetings in the
little house next to the church.
Damir Zukan, a man with a distinct prophetic
gift, came to our meeting and prayed for us
and he said: “I had a vision, God showed me
a picture – each of you came to your own Jesus
and asked for something."
That is Jesus from our
projection, who we made up
according to our requests,
according to the wrong pictures given to us
by our parents, often also priests, unfortunately.
But this is not the real Jesus.
That Jesus doesn’t have the power to change.
The only mold in which we are allowed to seal God is
this (the Bible).
And this man, from the movie,
decided to believe in the real Jesus,
not what politicians and media used to talk.
When he first went to Hungary among the
Communists, Jimmy Carter, the president, told him:
“They will use you for their propaganda.”
He said: “I don’t care. I’ll use them to spread
the Gospel because because that’s my mission!”
He won in the end
because the Gospel always wins.
If you want to be prophets, if you want the
guidance of God, know the word of God.
Some say: “God didn’t tell me anything.”
How did He not tell you?! He said everything
that is written in here (in the Bible).
And we have to get to know what is written
in the Bible first. And then what happens?
The Holy Spirit
will remind us of exactly what we
need in certain situations.
Jesus says:
“But the Helper,
“But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the
Father will send in my name, he will
teach you all things and bring to your
remembrance all that I
have said to you.” (John 14:26)
He will remind us. You all know the story
I have already told you, from Belgrade,
about that miraculous healing.
The Lord showed a particular Bible text,
I was obedient and a miracle happened.
This is why the Bible is full
of contradictory things.
In one place it’s written:
“For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words,
of him will the Son of Man be ashamed when
he comes in his glory and the glory
of the Father and of the holy angels”,
and in another place: “Do not
throw your pearls before pigs”.
I asked the Lord why did He say two contradictory
words? Here you have to say that you are a believer
and in another place it says: “do not throw your
pearls before pigs” – better be silent because
they will run over your pearls.
And then the Lord revealed to me that
this is the way to force me to have a
personal relationship with Him
and for Him to show me what
part is for what situation.
The 21st century Christian
must become a mystic.
Failure to do so will have
tragic consequences.
I was shocked by the documentary I watched
about the 9/11 attacks on New York.
Husbands, wives, families of
the dead spoke about it
and they said that the vast majority of them,
when they had woken up in the morning,
either dreamed that they shouldn’t go work
or they felt restless or that
they should just stay home.
But of course,
the reason had prevailed and
they went to work and died.
We must take time to learn to listen to God.
What if St. Joseph, when God said to him
that his wife and son will die
and that he has to save them
by going to Egypit, said: “It is only a dream”?
We need to become supernatural.
It does not mean to become weird.
We must become mystics
and we must start from the
position we are in now.
This is what Moses prayed for.
If you were at a holy mass today, you heard
that he cried: “ah, if all the people were prophets.”
You know what is really important to
understand? We now live in that times.
What was impossible during the Old Testament
- that cry of Moses for all people to be prophets
- is happening today.
We are living in a time of the New Spirits,
about which the prophet Joel said:
“And afterward, I will pour out
My Spirit on all people.”
I personally witnessed
that everyone, who have opened their
hearts, but everyone, I am not exaggerating,
have experienced a certaing supernatural,
extraordinary touch of God.
And they have experienced that God is alive
and real. He touched them in their hearts
and He gave them a clear guidance.
And then, depending on their cooperation with
the Grace, it has been opening and spreading much
easier than before.
Previously, this was reserved for
the mystics of the monasteries
who fasted for years to reach it.
We live in the times of Grace
when God really gives to all
who open to Him and who dare to believe
that He is omnipotent even today.
And what you have, as a Grace,
is the priest and the parish community
here that have recognized it.
Believe me, I'm going around
a lot now and around Croatia, and I'm
looking at that misery. Here used to be this misery.
Loss of perspective.
I have already mentioned to you, people
were focusing just on problems.
This is where God has
opened one space. What I
would like, after this topic, and through
our continued work this year is that
you become a part of it. Just like
leaders, right where you are.
And God will continue to proclaim,
more and more clearly, what He wants from us.
He first told St. Francis: “Go fix my church!
Can't you see it’s collapsing?“
And Francis did not understand, he began
to make the chapel of St. Damian.
He collected the stones and
started to built there himself.
Then God gave him an extension
because he was faithful
and said: „No, what I meant was you have
to rebuild the whole Catholic Church!“
And he went to pope who was profane.
We often tend to say
that our church leaders are
guilty of failing things.
They are not. The key is in our devotion.
Pope Innocent III was one of the worlds
most profane popes and when he saw Francis
he said to him
to go away.
He immediately chased him away.
But God gave him the dream
in which the church collapses.
In that dream, the church was standing on
a rock and collapsing, and this little man,
who had came to him, was holding
this church so it wouldn’t fall.
The next day, he called him and gave him
his blessing for the Franciscan Order.
Don't think that the enemies are beyond you.
They are in you.
The first battlefield you need to win is your heart.
A friend of mine comes from a village in
Banovina that was completely razed in the war.
The tank crossed the church, across the altar.
But what was particularly
intriguing to me, about this story,
was that none of them, before that war,
obeyed God's law. Everyone built their
houses on Sundays. Hard physical labor.
God made the chaplain
in that parish a holy man.
He shouted and shouted from the altar,
“Build houses on Sundays and
you will not live in them!“
You know what happened?
When the Chetniks of Yugo-army came
and razed the village, two houses,
completely at different parts,
remained completely intact.
These are the two houses
that weren’t build on Sundays.
We can talk about enemies from the outside.
Vukovar was flattened.
Vukovar was the city with the highest
number of abortions in Croatia.
They opened themselves
to the spirit of death.
The drainage of the Vukovar hospital,
where the tragedy took place afterwards,
was clogged with fetuses.
The struggle begins today, because it
always begins from today and from
now on it happens in our hearts.
Yes, I want to be holy, I want to be better.
How easy it is to shift responsibility to others?
Do you think that this what happens
with Muslims in European civilization is by chance?
If you knew Bible well, you would
see that this is not the case.
As soon as Israel fell from the law of God,
God brought from somewhere afar
some people more powerful and numerous
who would come and conquer and destroy it.
We have renounced the family law
and those who are still keeping it are coming.
Renewal must start from us.
First from our hearts, then from our families
and then God will open up something you
never dreamed of. Believe me,
I'm saying this from experience,
not from a story or religious
education I have heard before.
I had never dreamt of the things that
have happened in the last year.
And I do not know what is coming,
but I trust Him who leads me.
You too should become his disciples
so He could make you leaders by His heart.
Amen.